- Your guys'-
- Oh my god.
- chemistry was amazing,
have you ever kissed?
- I got a Matchbox car commercial
where I played a gangster.
- Why did somebody dose everyone
and why would they waste drugs?
(jazz music)
- You're starting?
- Yeah, I'd like to start.
- Okay.
- Because "One Battle After Another"
is my favorite movie I've ever seen
in my life.
- Oh, Thank you. Oh, stop.
- No, really...
You're a really, really,
really great actor,
and this was like the greatest
performance I've ever seen.
- Stop.
- And what struck me just as somebody,
'cause I know you and I
thought this character was so,
it was like the rawest I've ever seen you,
but you were also really warm.
And Bob reminded me,
not in like personality,
but I guess in like values of your dad.
And I know your parents were
like very counterculture.
- Yeah.
- So was there something
that was like built from you about Bob
or like do you think PTA just kind of
handed you a really warm and amazing guy?
- I think it was very personal for Paul.
He'd been writing it for 15, 20 years
and it was very pertinent to today,
very topical.
- Yeah.
- But yeah, it was, you know,
it was based on violent
but he made his own
rendition of all of it.
And I think the idea of this guy
who was a revolutionary
then trying to assimilate
himself in the modern world
with a daughter that he didn't connect to
was something that had
been permeating in his mind
for a long time, but as far as like
the counterculture stuff, yeah, my,
my parents are different though.
You know, my dad hung
around with Abby Hoffman
a bit back in the day.
They were definitely hippies,
but these were much more hardcore
revolutionaries that did-
- Oh yeah.
(Leonardo and Jennifer laughing)
- Much crazier stuff.
But yeah.
- Your dad was also
a bomb maker.
- My father was a bomb maker.
- Yeah.
- But I dunno, I just love the idea of
picking up on this guy
who was just kind of essentially an extra
in the beginning of the movie
to Teyana's sort of revolutionary fire.
And then you find him stuck there
trying to live off the grid
with no internet, no phone,
thinking his daughter's gonna
be as paranoid as he is.
And then this idea of
them trying to reconnect
in a modern context
and he doesn't even know how
to relate to his daughter
or the world that he lives in.
But all that was in the script
and something that Paul, you know,
put a lot of thought into.
- [Phone Recipient] What time is it?
- You know, I don't, I don't,
I don't remember that part.
Or let, let, let's just not
nitpick over the password stuff.
- It was the funniest I've ever seen you.
And was that because you were
- Thank you.
- were you like aware of the comedy?
'cause I think the funniest people
are like an Alec Baldwin
who like does it like as
serious as a heart attack,
and I can't do that.
Like when I was doing "No Hard Feelings,"
I was too like aware that it was a joke
and I was like, yay, a joke's coming up,
and I don't think-
- Right.
- I could do that.
But did you, were you like
aware that you were being funny
or were you just really-
- It was the circumstances.
I mean the fact that Paul wrote this idea
that you think I'm
gonna be able to utilize
all the skills from my
past as a revolutionary,
but that he's too stoned
to get off the couch
and he can't remember the password,
and then that kind of
dominates the entire story.
- Right.
- And then each time
we got to these moments
or maybe my character was
gonna do something heroic,
we throw it out the window,
all the way to the end.
- Yeah. When you fell off the roof.
- All the way to the
final moment in the movie
where we still thought
maybe I was gonna do something heroic,
we're like, nah, nah, he doesn't do it.
- Yeah, Benicio also never
really got his moment of
like all this kind of work,
and then there wasn't like a moment
where he rides off into the sunset.
- Right.
- It was just kind of-
- He was fantastic
to work with.
- He was.
Your guys'-
- Oh, my god-
- chemistry was amazing,
have you ever kissed?
(Leonardo and Jennifer laughing)
- The heat was actually
doing "Phoenicin Scheme"
and we said we have to wait for him.
So we shut down production
for three months
and then he was like, "I'm not,
I'm not prepared for this."
But he came in and knew
exactly who his character was
and we changed the whole
movie when he arrived.
- Yeah.
- All stuff we did on the road
is because Benicio was like,
"No, I'm not doing this,
I am doing this, this is hu Sensei,
no, this is what he's..."
and we just kind of made up,
we improvised most of that stuff
that we did together.
- Wow.
- This is at the end of the line, huh?
- Not for you.
Ocean waves, ocean waves.
- Well, one last question.
- Okay.
- I have more, but
before we move on to me,
do you watch playback?
- Depends on the movie.
- Did you watch playback on this?
- No.
- Oh yeah, you couldn't
because of the film.
- It was all VistaVision.
- Right.
- Almost endangered or extinct cameras.
- Giovanni Ribisi.
- Yes.
- [Jennifer] Yeah.
- I actually told Paul about
Giovanni Ribisi who makes
a lot of these cameras.
- Yeah.
- A lot of them are from Hitchcock's era.
The last film was "One-Eyed Jacks."
And then "The Brutalist" shot
something in VistaVision.
But the thing about VistaVision cameras,
not only are there incredibly rare
and that's when Giovanni
stepped in and said,
"Hey, I have two of these
cameras that I put together,"
the projectors, there's
only like four in the world.
- Wow.
- The film goes this way
and it's very, you know, I
think Cinemascope took it over,
but now there was, so it was no playback.
- Yeah.
A lot of rollouts.
- A lot of rollouts.
And we actually, I think
only destroyed one camera.
- Destroyed it how?
- Yeah.
Driving, the driving trucks.
- Oh man.
I saw the movie on IMAX
and those driving scenes
were amazing.
- Oh, really?
- Like stomach dropping, so good.
- So do you think you'll have another one?
- Yeah, pregnant now.
Picking up twins.
- What happened to your hands?
- Oh, you should see the wall.
- So tell me about "Die My Love,"
I thought it was, I just
finished it this morning
because this all got decided yesterday.
But it kind of reminded
me of like French New Wave
or Cassavetes's filmmaking
and I thought immediately of
"Woman Under the Influence,"
which is one of my favorite performances.
- Me too.
- And one of MY
favorite movies.
- Yeah.
- So why did you wanna do this part?
What got you into it?
You were fantastic in it, tell me more.
- Thanks.
Martin Scorsese had read the book-
- That's right
- in his book club,
and he was like, "You
should be in this movie
or you should make this into
a movie and star in it."
And then when I was reading it,
I really couldn't understand
how it would be a movie
'cause it's like all her inner dialogue.
I got the emotion of it,
like I felt like the author Ariana Harwicz
was able to like describe
the indescribable,
like grave depression and
like an identity crisis,
but like really poetically
like being lost in a forest
and just like these visuals-
- Yeah.
- and these metaphors
that I had just never thought of like
the human condition in that way.
But I couldn't like crack
how to make it a movie,
and I didn't wanna like go back to Marty
and be like, I don't get
it, try someone else.
So I like-
- The ending is really
powerful.
- Well it's interesting
because it, okay, so once I
realized that it's poetry,
you know, it's not like a literal story,
then it clicked that it's Lynne
Ramsay 'cause she's a poet.
- And what stuff was in the book?
Was there stuff in the book
that wasn't in the movie?
Or is it pretty much-
- No, she changed a lot.
- She changed a lot.
- She made the couple
be new to town, which
in the book they're not,
and I think that adds a huge element
to my characters depression.
And I think also the kind of
pacing like a tiger in a cage,
you know, just like this,
I think it added a lot more
of like the isolation that
I think a lot of new parents have.
'Cause like what is my life
now without a community?
- Right.
- Just being really lost.
At the beginning,
both of our characters kind
of stick out like sore thumbs.
- Yeah.
- 'cause we're like from a big city
and we're in this small town,
and then as the movie progresses,
I start to like blend in
and then that was my way of like finding
where I was in the day.
Like where she was mentally.
Like I'd be like, oh, the pink cardigan,
okay she's (tongue clicking).
- For a lot of the tension
for me was that baby.
- [Jennifer] Yeah.
- You know-
- I know
- You think of the tension
in a film like this,
you're like, okay, what's
gonna happen to this child?
- I know.
- Because she's unraveled.
- Yeah.
- And capable of anything.
- That's what got me on edge
with it.
- I know.
I really loved seeing you be a dad,
"One Battle After Another,"
I like, I'm so sad that you
don't have a teenage daughter,
you look great with one.
(Leonardo and Jennifer laughing)
We changed a lot, in the book,
you know, the child is
not well taken care of,
and Rob and I are both parents
and like Rob had like a newborn
and we just like were not capable of,
I think even playing characters like that.
And it changed, and I think that ended up
being for the better because postpartum,
I think we've only been talking
about it really recently-
- Right.
- And so
when we do talk about it,
the only understanding of it
like is like a very simplistic,
like, you don't connect with your child
and you don't like your child-
- Yeah. Right.
- When really that's
like one version of it.
You know, another version of it is
your marriage starts to erode.
- Right.
- 'cause your dynamic
is completely different.
- We dealt with a lot of that
with Teyana's character too in the movie.
- Yeah.
- Which was kind of
something I didn't, wasn't really,
I guess it was kind of
hinted at in the script,
but this idea of me loving
the baby more than her
and her being jealous of the baby
and then all these secret conversations,
but it was just a little
blip in the movie.
- Yeah.
- Whereas you explored it.
- Well I can, I imagine
how much that would
happen for her specifically
because she was doing
something so important.
And then when you have a baby,
it's hard to not just feel like an animal.
- Right.
- And you're just like,
I'm a useless cow that just,
I used to have a life, I
used to do important things.
- Right.
- And I mean for her-
- She was doing like-
- And then she almost blames me
for being the paternal one
in a weird way.
- Yeah.
Yeah.
- And you'll never understand
what I-
- I get it,
I'm on Tammy's side.
(Leonardo and Jennifer giggling)
- I'm curious about something-
- I was gonna ask you a question but-
- Our work aside.
- Okay.
- No, but I mean we're both,
you know, we both started out very young.
How old were you when you
started out auditioning?
- 14.
- In Kentucky?
- No, New York.
- In New York?
- Yeah.
- 14?
- 14.
- I was 12.
- Wow.
- Yeah.
And you did a lot of commercials, TV-
- Before "Winter's Bone?"
- And we were both on sitcoms.
- Yes.
What was your sitcom again?
- Well, yours was "Growing Pains"
- Mine was "Growing Pains"
- Which I watched
every day after school.
And mine was "The Billing Bowl Show,"
which I don't think anybody has ever seen
except me and my parents.
- How long were you on it?
- Two years.
- Two years?
- And then as soon as I
wrapped "Winter's Bone"
and then it, the show got canceled.
It worked perfectly.
- I did one year of "Growing Pains,"
then I got "This Boy's Life,"
which was like my first starring role.
And they were so incredibly awesome to me
because I think that we
were gonna do another year,
and the late, great Alan Thicke
and all of them got together
and like, "Let the kid go do this,
let 'em go."
- Oh
- It was really an amazing moment.
They were so sweet.
- Yeah, they're not normally
nice like that.
- And what was your first commercial?
- I did an MTV promo for
"My Super Sweet 16," a show.
So I was like on a Shay's lounge, like,
and then they like dropped me.
- But were you in the show
"Super Sweet 16?"
- No,
I don't have the money.
- What is a promo?
What does that mean?
- A promo is like, it's like
a commercial for the show.
- Still don't get it.
- Okay.
I was playing a rich girl.
- I see.
- Having a,
over the top birthday.
- You're acting.
- I was acting.
- You were acting.
- Like I had money.
- Gotcha.
(Leonardo and Jennifer laughing)
- Mine was a-
- You didn't grow up rich?
- No.
- But you got a sitcom
at 12, I mean that's-
- Yeah, I mean I think a lot
of my propulsion to want to act
was to get out of my neighborhood.
- Mm.
- Like that? You could do that for work.
- Right.
- My stepbrother
did a lot of commercials,
I was like, wait a minute,
you could get paid to do that?
- Yeah.
- I'm gonna get, I gotta
get out of this place?
Yes.
So I was the stage mom.
- Right.
- I was pushing my parents
to take me on auditions.
I'm like, you know, my
school is this far away,
when you pick me up we can
stop at a couple auditions
on the way home-
- Yeah.
- Get me out there.
And then I, like I said, my stepbrother,
he was an actor,
did an episode of "Battlestar Galactica"
and some television, and I was like,
if anything, this is
gonna be my college fund
to get me money to try to have
some sort of career in something.
And then I didn't book
anything for a while,
I got a Matchbox car commercial
where I played a gangster
with slicked back hair.
- Wow.
- Like I had a briefcase
and I opened it up.
- Did you go to the audition
looking like a gangster?
- Yes.
I slicked back my hair.
I put like a little leather jacket on.
And then I got a lot
of Mickey Safety Club,
they were called afterschool
special kind of things
where you teach kids not
to do drugs and all that,
and the dangers of drugs-
- D.A.R.E?
- It was kind of like that
from that era.
- Right.
- And then like I think my
first television show was
in "The Outsiders."
There's my whole filmography.
- Wow.
- That's my whole, that's my whole.
- Which brings me to one of my questions.
PTA was your white whale for
a while after "Boogie Nights."
Now you've just worked with him,
who's your white whale now?
- I don't know really.
I mean there's a lot of
great directors out there.
Damien Chazelle's very talented,
Michael Mann's amazing, I've
always wanted to work with him.
There's so many, I don't
really have one specifically
if I'm being honest.
Paul for me was always somebody
who I kind of felt
generationally was somebody that
I really looked up to.
He almost did "Boogie Nights" together,
and then I got to watch
his entire career progress
over the last 25 years
and see this incredible visionary
and just always wanted
to do something with him.
- Did you pass on "Boogie Nights?"
- It was a hybrid of that.
Like there was "Titanic"
and then there was-
- Oh right.
- "Boogie Nights"
and they kind of overlapped.
Maybe it could have
worked out-
- Have you rewatched
"Titanic?"
- No.
- Oh, you should.
- I haven't seen it
in forever.
- I bet you could-
I bet you could like
watch it as a movie now.
And it's so good.
- I don't really watch, maybe I do,
some movies I've watched.
Do you watch your old, your movies a lot?
- No, I've never made
something like "Titanic."
But if I did I would watch it.
- But I mean, do you put,
when was the last time you did that?
- When I was really drunk,
I put on "American Hustle"
and then my assistant went
to download something-
- But did you do it alone-
- the next day-
- or were you showing some-
- Showing people? Oh my God.
- Oh, being like,
yo, this is what this movie
was like.
- No, I was drunk
and I was like, I wonder
if I'm good at acting
and I put on "American Hustle"
and I don't remember what the, what the,
what the answer was.
- That is funny.
- I'm gonna have them cut that out.
- That is very funny.
- For sure.
- I wanted to ask about David O. Russell.
- [Jennifer] Oh, okay.
- And what the first film was like,
what "American Hustle" was
like, "Silver Linings,"
and what you feel like
he brought out in you
in a lot of these roles?
I mean, I think you've
talked about it like-
- Yeah.
- This sort of push and pull
with him and, and-
- I mean, I wanna be-
- How he helped you
as an actor in a lot of ways.
- Yeah. Yeah.
And he taught me how to act really.
I wanna be sensitive to the-
- That's hard to believe.
- Other actors who've worked with him
'cause I know he's tough, you know,
and he can be really,
really hard on people.
For me, I don't know if it was,
'cause I like grew up doing sports
and so I just felt like he
was just like a stern coach.
- Right.
- You know, it's like,
"Do it louder, do it more quiet.
That was bullshit, do it again.
That was bad, do it better."
Like, it was just very
like straightforward to me.
And I think I was young enough
that I didn't have anything to,
it was normal, like to me,
'cause I was like 21 when I
did "Silver Linings Playbook,"
it just felt really alive.
I never felt like he
was like yelling at me.
But anyway, I feel like when
I say he taught me how to act,
I feel like because I
never did like lessons
or anything like that,
I think I would've really
easily fallen into,
I don't know, something.
And he, I mean, you know how
I'm like never like prepared
and I would always feel bad-
- That's not true at all.
- About that.
But he was kind of like,
he taught me that like,
that was like staying loose,
and that, that's okay.
And I think if I wasn't like
aware that sometimes there's,
sometimes there's the need to like prepare
and then sometimes there
is the need to like
to not and to stay loose,
and I'm happy he taught me that.
- But you kinda like the process
of somebody calling out
direction like that?
- Yeah.
- You do?
- Interesting.
- Do you?
You don't?
- I think it does help sometimes.
- Yeah.
- Actually.
- But you show up like
you're already like,
you're like making the movie.
- But the idea of somebody, I mean,
yeah, I'm trying to think
if I ever had that. Yeah.
Most, 'cause most of the times
it's the director coming up to you
in an intimate conversation like that.
- Yeah, and I really don't
like being tiptoed around,
like I'm an emotional
landmine, I hate that.
(dogs barking)
- Just gonna leave it?
- Its your girlfriend,
you clean it up.
- Nice.
- She pissed on the floor too.
- For this movie, did you
have that dynamic too?
- For this movie she was really hands off
by the time we started shooting.
She kind of like builds the
world and then steps back,
and like watches and
is very observational.
But I think like our conversations
were, it was like more
of a universal conversation than like a
coming up in between.
- And a lot of it was
improvised obviously, right?
- I don't think
we did that much.
- Was that written
in the script?
All the stuff that you did in that film?
- No, I mean for the like pacing
around the house and stuff,
she would just kind of set up a camera
and tell me to-
- Exist.
- Yeah.
I think she improved a lot.
Like us crawling in the grass
that was written as like
us like flipping burgers
when he proposes to me.
- Didn't you say that was the first day
of filming or something?
- No, the first day was the
naked fighting like tigers.
(Leonardo giggling)
Yeah.
And Rob and I didn't even
know each other that well,
we like met a couple times.
- [Leonardo] Wow.
- I think it was better that way.
- Like threw you into the
gauntlet, you kinda like that?
- Yeah.
- I think so.
- Have you ever done nudity?
- Full? Yes, maybe, I have.
I did a film which you
never would've seen called,
"Total Eclipse" about Arthur Rambo,
French poet when I was 17 or 18.
I was nude in that,
and I think I was partially
nude in "Aviator."
- Mm, you should rewatch it.
(Leonardo and Jennifer laughing)
- I was trying to get the
rendezvous point for my daughter.
- Right.
- Willa.
- If you can't answer-
- Yeah.
- [Phone Recipient] what time is it,
I cannot give you the rendezvous point.
- I do just wanna hear more
about like how Bob can,
did it start, did it like...
I guess Chicken or the egg,
but like, he's fried his
brain, he's on drugs,
he can't remember the password.
So it's kind of like this...
You're kind of playing Bob
in a moment where he's never,
that he's never existed in before.
You know, he like started the movement
'cause he was like horny for her and then-
- [Leonardo] And that felt like
he believed in a cause too.
- I feel like that grew.
No? I'm wrong?
I'm not the character-
- Well, mere fact that he's,
well maybe, yeah, actually,
maybe that's what it seems
like when you watch it,
like he's running up with the wheelbarrow
and he's just starting.
- I think it was,
I think it started about her.
- Hmm.
- And then-
- That's interesting.
- And then it,
- No, that's not the way
we started out.
He was kind of the based
on the weather underground
and a lot of this book
that I read "Days of Rage"
and there was a specific
bomb maker in there
and they're kind of in the background as,
you know, the more sort of pertinent
or like forceful revolutionaries
are in the foreground.
And it had a lot to do with
what his life was like.
But yeah, I felt like he was definitely
a revolutionary from the
start and trying to fit in.
Yeah. Yeah.
- I think that the
creative part of my brain
and the political part of my
brain are intrinsically linked.
Like I keep finding, like
every time I come up with
like a movie or like, it's
more often than not political.
I think it's 'cause that's how
I'm like digesting the world.
Are you like that?
- No.
- Okay.
- No, I'm not.
- Next.
- But this...
But this was an interesting one
because he wrote this 15 years ago
and it kind of feels-
- Yeah.
- Very topical.
- Totally.
- And you know, as we know
it, "Don't Look Up" together,
it's very difficult to say something about
the world we live in,
and it has to have an element
of irony or comedy to it,
otherwise people, they're not allowed in.
You know what I mean, it feels like, oh,
I'm watching these people's vocation
and they, you know, do I relate to them?
And the messiness of the comedy I think is
kind of, you know, there's
all those political films
of the '70s "Parallax View,"
"Three Days of the Condor,"
"All the President's Men,"
and they were taken very seriously,
but nowadays it feels like
we're, there's such polarity
and such extremism that if you pick a side
you're alienating-
- Half.
- You know, yeah.
It's true, right?
- Yeah.
- So this, I think Paul delicate balance
and I think he did an
amazing job with this movie
and saying something.
- I agree.
I agree.
It reminded me of not the movie,
but the actual revolutionary Napoleon,
well the French 75.
- Right, French 75.
- What are your good and
bad habits as an actor?
And can I answer for you?
No, I'm just kidding.
- Yes, by the way, that'd be much better.
Bad habits.
I think I shoot out a lot of-
- You shoot up?
- Ideas
sometimes unnecessarily.
Well it's kind of like a shotgun spray
of anything that comes to mind,
and a lot of that may waste time
for the focus of what we already know,
do you know what I'm saying?
- Yeah, but that sounds helpful.
'Cause if it's not useful
then you just move on.
But if it is useful, that's
like really important.
- Well sometimes maybe it steers
away from what is obvious,
do you know what I mean?
But yeah-
- that still sounds like
a good thing to me.
- Does it? I don't know.
- Steering away
from what is obvious.
- Well, well you know,
but sometimes it's unnecessary,
like, you know, we know what
the scene's about let's,
and I just keep coming
up with this stuff that
may seem unnecessary, that's all.
- Well, a broken clock is
right twice a day.
- There you go.
So I think there are
inevitably gonna be moments
where it's not necessary,
but I don't think that that
means the whole process is bad.
- So maybe it's a-
- I think it's a good habit.
- Maybe it's a good and bad thing,
I answered both in one.
- Great.
- Now I'm gonna throw that back on you.
- My bad habit is that I am so good at
letting go at the end of the day
that I don't think about the next day.
- Right.
- And then it's like a mad scramble
in the hair and makeup trailer to like,
if it's like a bigger scene
than I was expecting it,
'cause normally it's like you get sides
and it's like you have
two lines in the day
and then it's like a mad
scramble to try to memorize.
And then it's, I'm not doing my best
'cause I'm trying to
remember what the lines are
instead of just knowing the
lines and then going elsewhere.
- So your ability to shut off in between-
- Is-
- Yeah.
- Great, 'cause for my life-
- I imagine on this movie
it was very emotional
what you were doing, so that,
when you went home, you were able to show.
How long was the shoot?
- Two and a half months I think.
- Oh wow.
- Maybe it wasn't, maybe it was one month.
Six weeks?
(Leonardo laughing)
I dunno.
- Yeah, that is a good quality.
- Yeah, it's good until-
- Makes you not go crazy.
- It makes me not go crazy
but the next morning is hell.
I mean, with "Silver Linings,"
I had a scene where I'm just like
yelling nothing but sports stats-
- Right.
- To Bob De Niro.
And that's obviously
really hard to memorize
'cause it's not like there's
a train of thought to follow,
it's just numbers and sports,
which I don't care about.
And you know, I didn't
know that I had to do that
until the day of and it's Robert De Niro
and I'm like, I'm not gonna fuckin' waste
Robert De Niro's time,
and so that's an example of,
it was a really, really bad thing to do.
- But it turned out great.
- Well, I ended up,
I nailed it on the first take
and then fucked up every single other take
until we finally moved on.
- That's a tough one, isn't it?
- That sucked.
- And you cannot,
I've had those moments too.
I remember on the "Aviator," I had to say
stuff about the Spruce
Goose and I could not-
- A what?
- I couldn't,
literally couldn't say the words.
- Yeah.
- And it's humiliating,
and it's like going to school
with your underwear on.
- Oh.
- It's a horrible feeling.
- Well you and I are both
obsessive about sleep,
like when we're working,
like counting the hours.
- Yeah.
- And when I was doing
"Red Sparrow,"
I took an Adderall instead
of a sleeping pill.
And then I didn't sleep all night
and I was like taking hot
showers, like panicking,
'cause like I can't, I can't,
I'm not like somebody who
can function without sleep.
And then I had to say
Senate Armed Services
Committee in a Russian accent.
And that sucked.
- That's like 11 benevolent elephants.
Senate arms.
- Well now that you are
saying it now I can't-
- Senate arms.
- Oh my god, I remembered it-
- Senate arms-
for 10 years.
- Service Community.
Senate Arms Service?
What did you just say?
- I have no idea.
Now it's gone.
- And it's gone.
- Now I have more long term
memory I guess to make room for.
I also once took an Ambien in the morning.
- Wow.
- Thinking it was
something else.
- Those are key screw ups.
- Yeah.
- Wow.
- And it was a dance scene
with Philip Seymour Hoffman on the second
"Hunger Games" movie.
And I was hallucinating.
- It almost shuts off
a certain part of your brain., Ambien.
- Well certainly the
memorizational part of your brain.
- And you had to say lines-
- I did.
- With that.
Wow.
- Yeah, I did.
And Elizabeth Banks got
really annoyed with me,
'cause maybe she didn't know
that I was on an Ambien.
But I kept asking the director,
wait and what does this mean?
Wait and what does this mean?
And what does that mean?
And she just like threw her sides.
It was just like, "Fine, let's
just keep talking about it."
(Leonardo and Jennifer laughing)
Have you ever...
Well on "Titanic," everybody
got dosed with peyote,
I mean you weren't, or PCP,
you weren't there.
- Yeah, I wasn't there.
- This was Bill Paxton.
- I just heard the story third hand.
I wasn't, yeah, that was
the modern day stuff.
I think people started,
there was like a conga line that formed
and people were dancing.
- Well and a lot-
- They were supposed to be
working.
- a 100 people
went to the hospital.
- Yeah.
- Well they thought
that it was a neurotoxin
from the clam chowder.
Why did somebody dose everyone
and why would they waste drugs?
It's a two-parter.
- I wasn't there.
- I have a question.
- Yes.
- Was there one note that PTA gave you
that became like Bob to you,
and does that happen to go on every movie?
Is that like some, 'cause
that for me happens.
I hear like one note
and then I'm like that,
it's almost like getting in an accent
and saying the same line.
- Well I think that back
to what you said earlier,
like the sort of bohemian
counterculture stuff
that I grew up with with my father,
my father's, you know,
anti-Vietnam, all that,
the kind of cast of
characters that I grew up with
was very connected to
that, those ideals of Bob.
And I think there was a
moment with him we were
about to start filming
and I was still trying
to create somebody else,
and he was, he was, he was very much like,
you know, make this much more personal to
the guys that you knew growing up
and the people that you saw,
and don't try to do something that is
out of the box with this one.
You know, don't make
him from somewhere else-
- Yeah.
- This is a
California kind of guy.
- Yeah, it's in you.
- And then of course "The Big
Lebowski" came into my mindset
with the dude-
- Yeah.
- and what a modern day
dude would look like,
who maybe planted bombs as well.
And then as soon as we got to
Northern California really,
and I understood what this
idea of hip necks were,
which were these kind of
hippies that were, you know,
also don't tread on me,
get off my property,
anti-government,
might have a shotgun in their backyard
ready to get people, you
know, outta their face,
that Northern California thing.
And Paul is amazing with
like location scouting.
He did it for I think a year.
We did Northern
California, Borrego Springs
with all the amazing road sequences
that chase sequence, El Paso,
and everywhere we went,
all sort of the local
community that we worked with
really helped with shaping the whole movie
and the narrative.
A lot of the people we
worked with in the movie
are non-actors.
So he just bring people in that
really had those vocations.
- Well, we're about to
work with each other.
- Yeah.
- Is there anything that I need to,
like I should absolutely
know about Martin Scorsese
before we start.
- It's a great thing
and he's gonna give you
a lot of film references.
- Oh, do I have to watch
all of them?
- Which is amazing,
'cause they usually come
in the form of a DVD
and if you don't have a DVD player,
get a DVD player.
- Oh my god,
I'm gonna kill myself.
So, but he'll have
screenings sometimes for
just one sequence in the movie.
Like if he can't,
he doesn't have a hard
time articulating anything,
but if there's something
that he wants you to capture
from an old film-
- Cool.
- Or the pacing of something,
you might have a screening of a whole film
just for a specific scene that
he wants to try to capture.
You know, we might see
some Japanese ghost films
for reference.
- Cool.
- Just to get the tone of it.
You're gonna have an amazing time.
- Wow.
- Yeah.
- Are you really excited
to work with me again?
- Yes, I am.
- I am too.
- Are you really excited
to work with Marty
for the first time?
Who isn't, right?
- I can't like believe that.
Okay, Leo, well goodbye.
(Leonardo and Jennifer laughing)
(jazz music)